---
layout: manifest
title: FF137
manifest_name: ff137
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<head>
  <link rel='stylesheet' href='stylesheet.css'/>
</head>

<p>Sharan Strange is a poet, essayist, teacher, and theorist. In interviews she has emphasized how substantially the political climate, and especially war, affects her experience of everyday life. Especially in these times, she feels a sense of responsibility to communicate truth, in opposition to the propaganda of false national and historical narratives. In her essay <i>A Poetics of Empathy</i>, she says: ”in the context of African American poetry from past to future, a poetics of empathy corresponds to a poetics of resistance that confronts apathy and assault with the prerogative, practice, and pressure of humanity.” Her poetry reflects this philosophy.</p>
    <p>Often Strange’s poetry includes rich and haunting language capturing aspects of her childhood in the south. Contemplating various subjects including racist teachers, trauma, classmates, and girlhood, Strange weaves together beautiful lines out of complex, sorrowful encounters. In other poems, she constructs a deep sense of place, explores the significance of dreams, and speaks of combating suffering and oppression, past and present, through artistic resistance.</p>
    <p>She has many influences, but has especially benefited from the work of Yusef Komunyakaa and Toni Morrison, with their sensitivity to the musicality of language and their creative recovery of histories. She also credits musicians, visual artists, and filmmakers as influencing her work.</p>
    <p>In her career she has engaged heavily in the artistic community through The Darkroom Collective, an organization which she co-founded, and her contributions to journals such as <i>Callaloo</i> and <i>American Poetry Review</i>. </p>
<br>
<p>In this interview, Reggie Young and Sharan Strange discuss her deep sense of place, the function of emotional reserve in her poetry, and her imaginative analysis of historical narrative.</p>
